the book of Zephaniah chapter 1 the word
of the Lord which came unto Zephaniah
the son of Kushi the son of get Alya the
son of a Mariah the son of his kaya
in the days of Josiah the son of Amon
king of Judah I will literally consume
all things from off the land saith the
Lord I will consume man and beast I will
consume the fowls of the heaven and the
fishes of the sea and the stumbling
blocks with a wicked and I will cut off
man from off the land saith the Lord I
will also stretch out my hand upon Judah
and upon all the inhabitants of
Jerusalem and I will cut off the remnant
of Bay all from this place and the name
of the Camerons with a priest and them
that worshipped the hosts of heaven upon
the housetops and them that worship and
that swear by the Lord and that swear by
Malcolm and them that are turned back
from the Lord and those that have not
sought the Lord nor inquire for him
hold thy peace at the presence of the
Lord God for the day of the Lord is at
hand for the LORD hath prepared a
sacrifice he earth bid his guests and it
shall come to pass in the day of the
Lord sacrifice that I will punish the
princes and the kings children and all
such as are clothed with strange apparel
in the same day also will I punish all
those that leap on the threshold which
fill their masters houses with violence
and deceit and it shall come to pass in
that day saith the Lord that there shall
be the noise of a cry from the fish gate
and in howling from the second and a
great crashing from the hills howl ye
inhabitants of make Tesh for all the
merchants people are cut down all they
that bear silver are cut off and it
shall come to pass at that time that I
will search Jerusalem with candles and
punish the men that are settled on their
Lee's that say in their heart the Lord
will not do good now there will he do
evil therefore their good shall become a
booty and their house is a desolation
they shall also build houses but not
inhabit them and they shall plant
vineyards but not drink the wine thereof
the great day of the Lord is near it is
near and he stood greatly even the voice
of the day of the Lord the mighty man
shall cry there bitterly that day is a
day of wrath a day of trouble and
distress a day of waste nests and
desolation a day of darkness and
gloominess a day of clouds and thick
darkness a day of the trumpet and alarm
against the fenced cities and against
the high towers and I will bring
distress upon men that they shall walk
like blind men because they have sinned
against the Lord and their blood shall
be poured out as dust and their flesh as
the dung neither their silver nor their
gold shall be able to deliver them in
the day of the Lord's wrath but the
whole land shall be devoured by the fire
of his jealousy for he shall make even a
speedy riddance of all them that dwell
in the land chapter two gather
yourselves together he gather together o
nation not desired before the decree
bring forth before the day pass as the
chaff before the fierce anger of the
Lord come upon you before the day of the
Lord's anger come upon you seek ye the
Lord all ye meek of the earth which have
wrought his judgment seek righteousness
seek meekness it may be 'i shall be
hidden the day of the lord's anger for
gaza shall be Forsaken and ashkelon a
desolation they shall drive out Ashdod
at the noon day and Ekron shall be
rooted up woe unto the inhabitants of
the Seacoast the nation of the Karaites
the word of the Lord is against you Oh
Kane in the land of the Philistines I
will even destroy thee that there shall
be no inhabitant and the Seacoast shall
be dwellings and cottages for shepherds
and folds for flocks and the coast shall
be for the remnant of the house of Judah
they shall feed thereupon in the houses
of Ashkelon shall they lie down in the
evening for the Lord their God shall
visit them and turn away their captivity
I have heard the reproach of Moab and
the revealing --zz of the children of
Ammon whereby they have reproached my
people and magnified themselves against
their border therefore as I live saith
the Lord of hosts the God of Israel
surely Moab shall be a Sunim and the
children of Ammon as gomorrah even the
breeding of nettles and salt pits and a
perpetual desolation the residue of my
people shall spoil them and the remnant
of my people shall possess them this
shall they have for their pride because
they have reproached and magnified
themselves against the people of the
Lord of Hosts the Lord will be terrible
unto them for he will famish all the
gods of the earth and men shall worship
him everyone from his place even all the
isles of the heathen Ethiopians also ye
shall be slain by my sword and he will
stretch out his hand against the north
and destroy Assyria and we'll make
Nineveh a desolation and dry like a
wilderness and flocks shall lie down in
the midst of her all the beasts of the
nations both the cormorant and the
bittern shall Lodge in the upper lentils
of it their voice shall sing in the
windows desolation shall be in the
thresholds for he shall uncover the
cedar work this is the rejoicing city
that dwell carelessly that said in her
heart I am and there is none beside me
how is she become a desolation a place
for beasts to lie down in every one that
passeth by her shall hiss and wag his
hand chapter three woe to her that is
filthy and polluted to the oppressing
city she obeyed not the voice she
received not correction she trusted not
in the Lord she drew not near to her God
her princes within her are roaring lions
or judges or evening wolves they know
not the bones till tomorrow her profits
are light and treacherous persons her
priests have polluted the sanctuary they
have done violence to the law the just
Lord is in the midst thereof he will not
do iniquity every morning does he bring
his judgment to light he faileth not but
they unjust knoweth no shame I have cut
off the nation's their towers are
desolate I made their streets waste that
none passes by their cities are
destroyed so that there is no man that
there is none inhabitant I said surely
thou will fear me that will receive
instruction so the dwellings should not
be cut off however I punished them but
they rose early and corrupted all their
doings
therefore weighty upon me saith the Lord
until the day that I rise up to the pray
for my determination is to gather the
nations that I may assemble the kingdoms
to pour upon them mine indignation even
all my fierce anger for all the earth
shall be devoured with a fire of my
jealousy for then will I turn to the
people a pure language that they may all
call upon the name of the Lord to serve
him with one consent from beyond the
rivers of Ethiopia my suppliant even the
daughter of my dispers'd shall bring my
offering in that day shalt thou not be
ashamed for all thy doings wherein thou
has transgressed against me well then I
will take away out of the midst of thee
them that rejoice in thy pride and thou
shall no more be haughty because of my
holy mountain I will also leave in the
midst of thee an afflicted and poor
people and they shall trust in the name
of the Lord the remnant of Israel shall
not do iniquity nor speak lies neither
shall a deceitful tongue be found in
their mouth for they shall feed and lie
down and none shall make them afraid
sing o daughter of Zion shout o Israel
and rejoice with all the heart o
daughter of Jerusalem the Lord hath
taken away thy judgments he hath cast
out thine enemy the king of Israel even
the Lord is in the midst of thee thou
shalt not see evil any more in that day
it shall be said to Jerusalem fear thou
not and his eye and let not thine hands
be slack the LORD thy God in the midst
of thee is mighty he will save he will
rejoice over thee with joy he will rest
in his love he will joy over thee with
singing I will gather them that are
sorrowful for the solemn assembly who
are of thee to whom the reproach of it
was a burden behold at that time I will
undo all that afflict thee and I will
save her that halt ahthe and gather her
that was driven out and I will get them
praise and fame in every land where they
have been put to shame at that time will
I bring you again
even in the time that I gather you for I
will make you a name and a praise among
all people of the earth when I turn back
your captivity before your eyes
save the Lord